Feat: add sap-text-arrangement-hidden ESLint rule (#4438)
SAP/open-ux-tools: packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/docs/rules/sap-text-arrangement-hidden.md

> # Disallow Hidden Text Properties Referenced by `UI.TextArrangement` (`sap-text-arrangement-hidden`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Disallow Hidden Text Properties Referenced by the `UI.TextArrangement` Annotation (`sap-text-arrangement-hidden`)
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

> Ensures that a property referenced as the text (description) value via `Common.Text` for a field annotated with `UI.TextArrangement` is not hidden by `UI.Hidden`. `UI.TextArrangement` may be placed inline inside `Common.Text` (property level) or directly on the entity type as a fallback for all its `Common.Text` properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensures that a property referenced as the text (description) value using the `Common.Text` annotation for a field annotated with the `UI.TextArrangement` annotation is not hidden by the `UI.Hidden` annotation. `The UI.TextArrangement` annotation may be placed inline inside the `Common.Text` annotation at the property level or directly on the entity type as a fallback for all its `Common.Text` properties.
```

Author: The `UI.TextArrangement` annotation...

Done with commit b4032fb.

## Rule Details

> When a field uses `UI.TextArrangement` (together with `Common.Text`) to display a human-readable description alongside a technical key, the referenced text property must be visible. If the text property has `UI.Hidden` set (without an explicit `false` value), the description will not be available to the UI and the text arrangement cannot work correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a field uses the `UI.TextArrangement` and `Common.Text` annotations to display a human-readable description alongside a technical key, the referenced text property must be visible. If the text property has `UI.Hidden` set (without an explicit `false` value), the description is not be available to the UI and the text arrangement does not work correctly.
```

Author: is not available...

Done with commit b4032fb.

The rule checks:

> 1. Every property whose `Common.Text` annotation contains an inline `UI.TextArrangement` child annotation (property-level placement).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Every property whose `Common.Text` annotation contains an inline `UI.TextArrangement` child annotation at the property level.
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

> 2. Every property that has a `Common.Text` annotation on an entity type which has `UI.TextArrangement` applied directly (entity-type level fallback — applies when no inline `UI.TextArrangement` is present on the property's `Common.Text`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Every property that has a `Common.Text` annotation on an entity type which has a `UI.TextArrangement` annotation applied directly, which is an entity-type level fallback which applies when no inline `UI.TextArrangement` is present, on the property's `Common.Text` annotation.
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

> 3. Whether the referenced description property has `UI.Hidden` present and not explicitly set to `false`. Dynamic path expressions (e.g. `Path="IsHidden"`) are also flagged — the presence of `UI.Hidden` on the text property is considered problematic regardless of the runtime value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Whether the referenced description property has `UI.Hidden` present and not explicitly set to `false`. Dynamic path expressions, such as `Path="IsHidden"`, are also checked. The presence of `UI.Hidden` on the text property is considered problematic regardless of the runtime value.
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

### Why Was This Rule Introduced?

> `UI.TextArrangement` controls how a key–text pair is presented (e.g. "English (EN)" or "EN (English)"). If the referenced text property is hidden via `UI.Hidden`, the text part is unavailable, causing the annotation to have no effect and potentially confusing users with missing descriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `UI.TextArrangement` annotation controls how a key–text pair is presented , for example, "English (EN)" or "EN (English"). If the referenced text property is hidden using `UI.Hidden`, the text part is unavailable, which causes the annotation to have no effect and missing descriptions.
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

### Warning Message

```

> The text property "{{textPropertyPath}}" referenced via Common.Text on "{{targetPath}}" is hidden. Remove the UI.Hidden annotation from the text property or set it to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "{{textPropertyPath}}" text property referenced using the Common.Text annotation on "{{targetPath}}" is hidden. Remove the UI.Hidden annotation from the text property or set it to false.
```

Author: To have the same message in the documentation and in the app (file sap-text-aggangement-hidden.ts), I used...

The text property "{{textPropertyPath}}" referenced using the Common.Text annotation on "{{targetPath}}" is hidden (UI.Hidden). Remove the UI.Hidden annotation from the text property or set it to false.

Example:
The text property "SEPMRA_PROD_MAN.I_CurrencyType/Currency_Text" referenced using the Common.Text annotation on "SEPMRA_PROD_MAN.SEPMRA_C_PD_ProductType/Currency" is hidden (UI.Hidden). Remove the UI.Hidden annotation from the text property or set it to false

Is that ok?
Done with commit b4032fb.

```

> ### Incorrect Annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Incorrect Annotations
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

> **Property-level `UI.TextArrangement` (nested inline inside `Common.Text`):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A `UI.TextArrangement` annotation which is nested inline inside a `Common.Text` annotation:**
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

```xml
<!-- property_code has a TextArrangement (nested inside Common.Text) that references category/name as the text -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.MyEntity/property_code">
    <Annotation Term="Common.Text" Path="category/name">
        <Annotation Term="UI.TextArrangement" EnumMember="UI.TextArrangementType/TextFirst"/>
    </Annotation>
</Annotations>

<!-- The referenced text property is hidden — this is incorrect -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.Category/name">
    <Annotation Term="UI.Hidden"/>
</Annotations>
```

> **Entity-type level `UI.TextArrangement` (fallback for all `Common.Text` properties):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**An `UI.TextArrangement` annotation at the entity-type level which is a fallback for all `Common.Text` properties):**
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

```xml
<!-- TextArrangement applied at entity-type level — acts as fallback for all Common.Text properties -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.MyEntity">
    <Annotation Term="UI.TextArrangement" EnumMember="UI.TextArrangementType/TextFirst"/>
</Annotations>

<!-- property_code has Common.Text with no inline TextArrangement — entity-type fallback applies -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.MyEntity/property_code">
    <Annotation Term="Common.Text" Path="category/name"/>
</Annotations>

<!-- The referenced text property is hidden — this is incorrect -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.Category/name">
    <Annotation Term="UI.Hidden"/>
</Annotations>
```

> ### Correct Annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Correct Annotations
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

> **Property-level `UI.TextArrangement` (nested inline inside `Common.Text`):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A `UI.TextArrangement` arrangement at the property level which is nested inline inside a `Common.Text` Annotation:**
```

Author: arrangement => annotation

Done with commit b4032fb.

```xml
<!-- property_code has a TextArrangement (nested inside Common.Text) that references category/name as the text -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.MyEntity/property_code">
    <Annotation Term="Common.Text" Path="category/name">
        <Annotation Term="UI.TextArrangement" EnumMember="UI.TextArrangementType/TextFirst"/>
    </Annotation>
</Annotations>

<!-- The referenced text property is visible — no UI.Hidden -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.Category/name">
    <!-- no UI.Hidden annotation here -->
</Annotations>
```

> **Entity-type level `UI.TextArrangement` (fallback for all `Common.Text` properties):**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A `UI.TextArrangement` annotation at the entity-type level which is a fallback for all `Common.Text` properties):**
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

```xml
<!-- TextArrangement applied at entity-type level -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.MyEntity">
    <Annotation Term="UI.TextArrangement" EnumMember="UI.TextArrangementType/TextFirst"/>
</Annotations>

<!-- property_code has Common.Text with no inline TextArrangement — entity-type fallback applies -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.MyEntity/property_code">
    <Annotation Term="Common.Text" Path="category/name"/>
</Annotations>

<!-- The referenced text property is visible — no UI.Hidden -->
<Annotations Target="MyService.Category/name">
    <!-- no UI.Hidden annotation here -->
</Annotations>
```

> Or if the property should not be hidden in this context, explicitly set `UI.Hidden` to `false`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the property should not be hidden in this context, set `UI.Hidden` to `false`:
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.

```xml
<Annotations Target="MyService.Category/name">
    <Annotation Term="UI.Hidden" Bool="false"/>
</Annotations>
```

## Bug Report

If you encounter an issue with this rule, please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/SAP/open-ux-tools/issues).

## When Not to Disable This Rule

> This rule should not be disabled unless you have a specific scenario where the text property needs to be hidden globally but the annotation is intentionally kept for a different consumption context (e.g. a back-end consumer that processes annotations directly). Such cases are very uncommon, and a `Bool="false"` override is the preferred solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule must not be disabled unless you have a specific scenario where the text property must be hidden globally but the annotation is intentionally kept for a different consumption context, for example, a back-end consumer that processes annotations directly. Such use cases are very uncommon and a `Bool="false"` override is the preferred solution.
```

Author: Done with commit b4032fb.
